So when I worked at Twilio,
we had this design system paced and
I was like good friends with that team.
And the primitive for everything was box.
Right?
Box is kinda like div but
everything under the hood was a box.
And if some teams like well we can't
use your design system cuz we need this
custom thing like cool start with box,
right?
And you'll see this a lot.
It exists in like material UI and
chakra UI.
And this is super easy to implement
where it's S article, right?
And then under the hood, and
I'll show you this code in a second.
Under the hood, you can just do
this little trick where it's like
you've placed a tag name
with whatever that was.
Right?
And in a normal world like taking that and
passing it to component
props without ref or
component parts with ref and
like getting the rest of those
types to come in would totally work and
it can be done.
And this is the question at what
point do you make the call?
It can be done.
However, because particularly
the dom is so fast and
loose, and then refs can be
all sorts of different things.
And a few other different children and
stuff like that,
which is why they were removed
from functional component.
Because it can be so fast.
The actual I think I linked to a bunch.
Like blog posts at the bottom like
a deep academic discussions on
the nuances of doing it in
these libraries and originally.
I was yeah let's take an exploration right
cuz like clearly we must do it in paste
I'll just show you the simple version we
will get into like the deep version cuz
at one point.
I was let me go see how my buddies did it.
They just hard coded all the HTML
values with what they should be for
like the common denominator.
Cuz they're actually if you actually
hovered over a section, a div and aside,
they're all just base html elements.
They don't actually have
any special properties.
They're all boxes.
So, sometimes, they didn't do all
these deep gymnastics, right?
They just had a list of all
the properties that box supported, and
it was all the common ones across that.
There's a real question you need to
ask yourself of, if you start nesting
a like type ternary inside of another
one that then flips over into a never
ending one case Library code
is a different story, right?
The stuff you have to do to support
a wide range of generalized use cases.
Absolutely.
There has never been a time that
I've done one of those things
like when I told you that one time,
I just busted out this crazy,
generic and it just flowed out of me.
I don't totally remember, but
I'm pretty sure I deleted that.
Do you know what I mean?
It worked, but, I went for a walk and
a simpler, more maintainable for
any junior engineer on my team
version of that was the right answer.
So, to the question in the chat,
I think sometimes that is, that sense and
that the spirit that fuels that
question is I think incredibly valid,
right, yeah, for if you're just
mirroring a simple like button.
I use that all the time.
Super helpful.
We'll look at some of this but,
I would say,
I would tell you a cautionary tale here,
right?
So this is from the paste docks, right,
there all boxes you can see they make you
then use instead of CSS things they
have their very specific properties.
Is to build you into their system so
that it works with everything else.
But this is what the simplest version if
you just wanted to use all the standard
div section paragraph, right.
They have like base CSS style and
that's different, but
they are functionally the same is
that you would basically say hey,
as can be any one of these known types.
And then have it be that tag name.
And then since they all have the same core
set of things you can like pull it in,
and this mostly works.
But as you kinda get to this is what I
worked out is as I was going through it,
I was this is a bad idea right and
kinda stopped myself right.
Because a lot of times is even though some
libraries choose to just keep it a lot
simpler than this.
And you can go all the way,
and I think that I would.
Turn this more into a cautionary
tale that you should probably not.
Right.
Can you?
Absolutely.
But at that point you are deep
into the internals of Type Script.
I think we've wandered far just
to abstract something there
like the work to grab the common elements
is a lot easier in that case, right?
Or have two components becomes a lot
easier if your goal is to build
a react application.
I would caution you, right?
It seems good.
It seems like I should do this
because abstractions are great.
Except when they're not.